1. Difference Between App, Object, Record, and Field

Term	Meaning	Example

App  : A collection of related tools, tabs, and objects used for a specific business purpose	College Management App
Object :	A database table that stores related information	Student Object
Record:	A single row of data inside an object	One student’s details
Field	: A column that stores specific information in a record	Student Name, Roll Number

Simple Understanding
App → Complete system
Object → Table
Record → One entry
Field → One piece of information 

2. Standard vs Custom Objects
Standard Objects	Custom Objects
Already provided by Salesforce	Created by users
Used for common business processes	Used for organization-specific needs
Examples: Account, Contact, Opportunity	Examples: Student, Course, Faculty
Cannot be deleted permanently	Can be modified or deleted

Example
Standard Object: Account
Custom Object: Student__c

3. College Data Model
Objects Used
1. Student
2. Course
3. Faculty
4. Department
5. Attendance
Relationships
One Department has many Students
One Faculty teaches many Courses
One Student has many Attendance Records
One Course has many Students

College Data Model Diagram
Department
   |
   | One-to-Many
   ↓
Student -------- Attendance
   |
   | Many-to-One
   ↓
Course -------- Faculty
Explanation

Student Object stores student details.
Course Object stores course information.
Faculty Object stores teacher details.
Attendance Object stores attendance status.
Department Object stores department information.

4. Formula Fields
What is a Formula Field?
A formula field automatically calculates values based on other fields
Example 1: Total Marks Percentage
Formula
\text{Percentage} = \frac{\text{Total Marks}}{600} \times 100
Explanation
Calculates percentage automatically.
If marks change, percentage updates automatically.
Example 2: Full Name Formula
Formula
First_Name & " " & Last_Name
Explanation
Combines first name and last name into one field.

6. Validation Rules
What is a Validation Rule?
Validation rules prevent users from entering invalid data.
Example 1: Age Validation
Rule
Age < 18
Error Message
Student age must be greater than or equal to 18.
Explanation
Prevents saving records if age is below 18.
Example 2: Email Validation
Rule
NOT(CONTAINS(Email,"@"))
Error Message
Enter a valid email address.
Explanation
Ensures email contains “@”.

6. Reflection – Why Structured Enterprise Data Matters
Structured enterprise data is important because it helps organizations store, manage, and access information efficiently.
 In Salesforce, structured data improves accuracy, reduces duplication, and supports better decision-making. It also helps
employees work faster by organizing records properly and maintaining relationships between objects. In a college system,
structured data helps manage students, courses, attendance, and faculty details in an organized manner.
